Our group has had an interesting time the past week essentially re-designing our dashboard. Following the feedback provided in the lab, we decided we were trying to show too much with the 10 scatter plots, and that they were not really providing any useful information. As such, we decided to aggregate and ask some different research questions. Our dashboard prototype currently has four plots. In the top left is a bar chart which shows either the top 10 songs or top 10 artists and their mean popularity score. The plot on the top right shows how many songs were released each year in each genre, while the one on the bottom right shows the mean popularity of songs in each genre over time. Finally, the plot on the bottom left shows the number of songs released in each of the subgenres as a bubble plot. For interactivity, we have implemented three widgets. The first is a multiple option drop-down menu that allows multiple genres to be selected. The second is a slider to select the year range of records to consider. The results of both change what is displayed in all four plots. Finally, there is a drop-down menu to change whether the top 10 songs or artists are displayed in the chart on the top left. Moving forward, this could be changed to a radio button.
Thus far we have done a good job of pivoting based on feedback and coming up with a new plan. We have also succeeded in getting all our main components onto the page and semi-functional. Moving forward, our two biggest tasks will be to make the user interface less clunky and more visually appealing. This will include getting our labels to be clearer and better lined up with the components and fixing the font colors on the slider bar to make them more readable. It would also be nice if we can get the transitions on plot updates to be smoother and a bit faster. One other improvement we could make would be to link the subgenre plot to the genre count and popularity over time plots. One way to do this might be so that if the user clicks on one of the genres in the plots, another plot appears to show the breakdown into subgenres.

!()[assets/prototype.gif]
